---
layout: post
title:  "We create our own demons"
categories: empirical
---
“We are each our own devil, and we make this world our hell.” I know that most of you must have heard those words before and some of you might even know who said it as well. But even if you don't, it doesn't matter. What matters is that he was great. I've been thinking about those words quite a lot lately. In retrospect, I realized that we all have greatest fears, lust for something, regrets or dark secrets in our lives. These are some things which doesn't appear on the surface but can slowly eat you up from inside.<br/><br/>
These things or emotions can have a control over someone and can make them do things. For some it can be self-destructing while for others it can be depressing. Isn't that something what a demon does? It controls you and makes you do things which you might find wrong in your conscience. They are well aware of our thoughts, so they provide us with a reason to define our actions after they takeover. Many people even believe that no matter how virtuous and righteous we believe ourselves to be, we all have some kind of element of darkness inside of us which pushes us to do immoral, wrongful or simply just bad things in our lives. Some realize it, some don't.<br/><br/>
I don't know if the temptations mentioned in the Christian tradition would be relevant here. But many people and things get compelled and destroyed by them, so I'll just make a brief mention about them. They are called the seven deadly sins,<br/>
1. Pride - the quality or state of being inordinately self-esteemed or conceit
2. Envy - painful or resentful awareness of an advantage enjoyed by another joined with a desire to possess the same advantage
3. Wrath - strong vengeful anger or indignation
4. Gluttony - excessive indulgence (typically food or drink)
5. Lust - intense or unbridled (sexual) desire, lasciviousness
6. Sloth - disinclination to action or labor, spiritual apathy, and inactivity
7. Greed - a selfish and excessive desire for more of something (such as money) than is needed (material goods)<br/>
If you want more on this then you can refer [here too](https://www.bibleinfo.com/en/questions/what-are-seven-deadly-sins).<br/><br/>

The choices we make and the path we choose to walk on will surely lead us somewhere which wouldn't be the same as when we had chosen to walk on the one, which we should've been walking on all along. Sometimes we're aware of the choices we are making and hence have a slight idea of the results it's gonna yield us. But sometimes, the choices aren't just made by us. Sometimes we are driven. Impelled.<br/><br/>
Wherever there is grief, guilt and regret follows. We all have some things in our lives which we wish to have done in a different way, or some things we wish we should or shouldn't have said, even things we feel terrible about. Some of you might have it and some of you might don't. I know that I have. Everything we do has an effect on our present and our future. Anger is the strongest emotion we have but regret takes over it and can destroy us, day by day second by second, slowly but surely. If you have control over the situation and you know how to channel your emotions then you can even channel your anger into a driving force for something. But if the control is not in your hands then everything will be lost, ruined or destroyed.<br/><br/>
We all have our own demons, and we are the one who create them. Demons which can subdue our thoughts, emotions and actions. Or which can make us lean over our darkest sides and can change us. Or which can make our choices unclear resulting in making a decision which might leave us with regret for the rest of our lives. Every detriment is the result of our own actions or inabilities. While some are able to resist and fight what they've created, others just have to live with it.




