---
layout: post
name: VGG16 AND VGG19
title: VGG16 AND VGG19
categories: 
- ml
---

docs link: [https://keras.io/api/applications/vgg/](https://keras.io/api/applications/vgg/)<br/><br/>

## What is a Pre-trained Model? 
<br/>

A pre-trained model has been previously trained on a dataset and contains the weights and biases that represent the features of whichever dataset it was trained on. Learned features are often transferable to different data. For example, a model trained on a large dataset of bird images will contain learned features like edges or horizontal lines that you would be transferable your dataset. <br/><br/>

**VGG19 and VGG16 are also examples of pre-trained models on a large dataset of images, belonging to 1000 different classes, called ImageNet.**<br/><br/>


## Why use a Pre-trained Model?  
<br/>
Pre-trained models are beneficial to us for many reasons. By using a pre-trained model you are saving time. Someone else has already spent the time and compute resources to learn a lot of features and your model will likely benefit from it.<br/><br/>

## ABOUT VGG19 AND VGG16
<br/>
Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition. VGG stands for Visual Geometry Group; it is a standard deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture with multiple layers. The “deep” refers to the number of layers with VGG-16 or VGG-19 consisting of 16 and 19 convolutional layers.
<br/><br/>

VGG16 is a convolution neural net (CNN ) architecture that was used to win ILSVR(Imagenet) competition in 2014. It is considered to be one of the excellent vision model architectures till date. 
<br/><br/>
In the end, it has 2 FC(fully connected layers) followed by a softmax for output.<br/><br/>

The 16 in VGG16 refers to it has 16 layers that have weights. This network is a pretty large network and it has about 138 million (approx) parameters.<br/><br/>

## What is CNN?
<br/>
A Convolutional Neural Network, is a class of neural networks that specializes in processing data that has a grid-like pattern, such as an image. A digital image is a binary representation of visual data. It contains a series of pixels arranged in a grid-like structure that contains pixel values to denote how bright and what color each pixel should be.
<br/><br/>

In CNN layers are arranged in such a way so that they detect simpler patterns first like lines, curves, etc. And more complex patterns like faces, objects, etc. further. 


